
General Information
===================


Introduction
------------

aPLib is a compression library based on the algorithm used in aPACK (my 16-bit
executable packer). aPLib is an easy-to-use alternative to many of the
heavy-weight compression libraries available.

The compression ratios achieved by aPLib combined with the speed and tiny
footprint of the decompressors (as low as 169 bytes!) makes it the ideal
choice for many products.

Since the first public release in 1998, aPLib has been one of the top pure
LZ-based compression libraries available. It is used in a wide range of
products including executable compression and protection software, archivers,
games, embedded systems, and handheld devices.


Compatibility
-------------

The aPLib package includes pre-compiled libraries in a number of formats
(COFF, ELF, OMF).

No standard library functions are used, so the libraries can work with most
x86/x64 compilers, as long as the name decoration and calling conventions
match.

The ELF folders contain a version of aPLib which uses PIC to allow it to be
linked into shared libraries on linux.


Thread-safety
-------------

All compression and decompression functions are thread-safe.


Using aPLib
-----------

For C/C++ you simply include ``aplib.h`` and link with the appropriate library
for your compiler. If you only need to decompress data, or if you modify the
decompression code, you can compile and link with one of the decompression
implementations in the ``src`` folder.

For other languages you can either check if there is a useable example, or use
the DLL version. Most linkers allow calling C functions in an external
library, so usually there is a way to use one of the libraries.

aPLib performs memory-to-memory compression and decompression, so getting data
into an input buffer and allocating an output buffer is your responsibility.

All functions return ``APLIB_ERROR`` (which is ``-1``) if an error occurs.

Attempting to compress incompressible data can lead to expansion. You can get
the maximum possible coded size by passing the size of the input to the
function :c:func:`aP_max_packed_size()`.

When calling :c:func:`aP_pack()` you have to supply a work buffer. You can get
the required size of this buffer by passing the size of the input to the
function :c:func:`aP_workmem_size()` (in the current version this function
always returns 640k).

If you do not have a callback for :c:func:`aP_pack()`, you can pass ``NULL``
(i.e. ``0``) instead. The callback functionality allows your program to keep
track of the compression progress, and if required to stop the compression.

:c:func:`aP_depack()`, :c:func:`aP_depack_asm()`, and
:c:func:`aP_depack_asm_fast()` assume that they are given valid compressed
data -- if not they will most likely crash. This is to ensure that the basic
decompression code is as small, fast and easy to understand as possible. You
can use :c:func:`aP_depack_safe()` or :c:func:`aP_depack_asm_safe()` if you
need to catch decompression errors. Also the safe wrapper functions provide a
nice interface that helps prevent potential crashes.


Safe Wrapper Functions
----------------------

Starting with aPLib v0.34, there are additional functions included which
provide a better way of handling the compressed data in the example, and also
serve as an example of how to add functionality through function wrappers.

The :c:func:`aPsafe_pack()` and :c:func:`aPsafe_depack()` functions are
wrappers for their regular ``aP_`` counterparts, which add a header to the
compressed data. This header includes a tag, information about the compressed
and decompressed size of the data, and CRC32 values for the compressed and
decompressed data.

The ``example`` folder contains a simple command line packer that uses aPLib
to compress and decompress data. The ``aPsafe_`` functions are used in this
example, because they provide extra functionality like retrieving the original
size of compressed data.


Contact Information
-------------------

If you have any questions, suggestions or bug-reports about aPLib, please feel
free to contact me by e-mail at:

    contact@ibsensoftware.com

You can get the latest version of aPLib and my other software at:

    http://www.ibsensoftware.com/
